Update Getting Started to reflect web-first (T-679) (#16)
membrane-io/docs: src/content/docs/concepts/schema.md

---
title: Schema
---

> A Membrane program's graph is defined by its _schema_, autogenerated in `your-program/memconfig.json` based on the schema you configure in the Explorer panel. The schema is a set of types, which can be _fields_, _actions_, or _events_.

Author: > Also, not sure if the </> will be interpreted as html

Markdown interprets it as plaintext since it's within inline code backticks.

> A Membrane program's graph is defined by its _schema_, autogenerated in `your-program/memconfig.json` based on the schema you configure in the Explorer panel. The schema is a set of types, which can be _fields_, _actions_, or _events_.

Author: The concept of a "member" confuses me (not sure if it might confuse other new users). I edited to this for now, which we can always change:
```
A Membrane program's graph is defined by its _schema_, autogenerated in `<your-program>/memconfig.json` based on the schema you configure in the Explorer panel.

The schema is a set of types that represent nodes in the program's graph. Nodes can be _fields_, _actions_, or _events_.
```

- **Fields**: queryable nodes and values
- **Actions**: invocable functions on a node
- **Events**: subscribable notifications

<video src="/cloud-assets/schema.mp4" muted autoplay loop></video>

> 

Reviewer: Do you think it could be helpful to draw parallels with OOP?

Something along the lines of: "Membrane nodes can be thought of objects in the object-oriented programming sense, but unlike normal JavaScript objects, Membrane nodes can be referenced from other programs."

Author: > but unlike normal JavaScript objects, Membrane nodes can be referenced from other programs

This part loses me because you _can_ access JS objects from other programs if you import them, say as an npm package, which is similar to membrane program connections/dependencies

- `twitter:` refers to the root node of the [twitter driver](https://github.com/membrane-io/membrane-driver-twitter)
- `github:users.one(name:"membrane-io")` refers to a Github `User`
- `github:users.one(name:"membrane-io").repos.one(name:"directory")` refers to a `Repository`

## Fields

Fields are queryable nodes that hold values you can read. From the [github driver](https://github.com/membrane-io/membrane-driver-github):

- `github:status` is a field of type `String` via the `status` field on the `Root` type
- `github:users` is a field of type `UserCollection` via the `users` field on the `Root` type
- `github:users.one(name:"membrane-io")` refers to a node of type `User`
- `github:users.one(name:"juancampa")` refers to _another_ node of type `User`

The two last examples show that parameters can be passed to fields where each combination of parameters
represent a different node in the graph.

We call these references _handles_ or _grefs_ (short for graph reference).

## Actions

Actions are functions that can be invoked in the context of a graph node. Note that since actions are graph nodes too, they can be passed around and referenced just like fields.

## Events

> Events are types that can be emitted from a program and subscribed to from a program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events are members on a type which can be "emitted" by programs when something of interest happens on one of its nodes. Other programs can subscribe to get notified.
```
